>> Will Sentance: Here we go, people.
JavaScript are those two things, one is
save stuff to a little data store, and
with data store within JavaScript,
a little store of data.
What they call the store of data
in JavaScript itself,
>> Sam: Sam.
>> Will Sentance: Sam.
Sorry Sam.
What do they call the store
of data in JavaScript itself?
>> Sam: Global execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Not quite,
what do they call it?
Who raise your hand anybody if
you know what they call it.
Yes, go ahead.
>> Speaker 3: Global variable environment.
>> Will Sentance: That is
the fancy name for it, very nice.
What is the trivial name for it?
>> Speaker 3: Memory
>> Will Sentance: Memory.
Exactly they call it memory.
There you go global, it's global people
because it's available in all of your
JavaScript code as it's running.
Anything saved in this little store of
data will be available the whole time
as opposed to when we run a function.
It's gonna store up all that
data inside the function.
Execution context it's known
as we'll see in a second.
And as soon as that function finish
running, all the data gets deleted.
All right, so, let's get storing
stuff people and remember,
we're doing this cuz we better understand
how JavaScript runs if we're gonna be
able to handle all people.
By the end of the,
before we start the pair programming,
you will have the full model of
Node down sufficient to be able to,
in theory,
do anything that LinkedIn does with Node.
Anything that Netflix does within reason.
The fundamental tasks are doing
by the pair programming which is
only a few days, no,
no only a few hours away.
Hours away.
All right, there you go.
What are we doing then?
Therefore at this moment as JavaScript
code kicks off, starts running,
what's the first thing it's gonna do,
Matt?
>> Speaker 3: It's gonna us,
the first line.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah.
That's the worst answer ever, Matt.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: What's that first line
say to do?
>> Speaker 3: Assign 3 to a variable.
>> Will Sentance: Perfect.
Yeah, it is, exactly, to a variable.
NUM is set to 3.
That means we have a label saving data.
Next line, Matt.
What's it say to do?
If you can written up there.
>> Speaker 3: It's a commend but.
>> Will Sentance: That's true.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: Okay,
next line are the jobs it executes.
Next line it executes or
that it'll actually evaluate, sorry.
>> Speaker 5: It's gonna register
a function called multiple byte?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
what does that even mean?
Declare, register, define,
they all mean the same thing.
They mean literally take the functions
label, and then its body and
parameters and save the code.
Do not do it now, save it later.
Save it like you save a number.
Registering is not the right word to me.
I mean, it's not incorrect,
but it's suggested,
it's kind of vaguely aware of it.
Declare, define suggest
it's vaguely aware of it.
No.
It never is gonna go back to this line.
So it better hold onto all that data,
in this case it's lines of code.
It better hold onto it and it does.
Be really clear on that people.
That is what it's doing.
It's taking the label which we gave it.
Which was what Matt?
>> Matt: Multiply by-
>> Will Sentance: Absolutely and
it's taking all of its code and
the place holders,
>> Will Sentance: Parameters they
are known as, they are hopefully when
we end up wanting to run this code, and
how do we run this code later on Andrew?
>> Andrew: We declare the, probably, put
the variable name with some parentheses.
>> Will Sentance: [INAUDIBLE]
He's spot on.
We execute code by taking its label and
putting parens on the end, parens.
Not by inserting arguments.
That is a separate thing.
We execute code.
We take code to run by
putting parens on the end of
the name of the code that we save.
Perfect.
All right, but for now, what's the other
thing that goes into its newer function?
Well, we ideally want that code
to be a little bit more flexible
to work with different data.
What if we want to say it's gonna multiply
three or seven or so we have placeholders
for data that then gets inserted
when we go ahead and run that code.
Two parts to running a function.
One, running its code.
The other,
inserting actual values as inputs.
So, when we save the code
that's gonna later be run,
we'd better have both of those things.
Space, code to run.
That's the body of the function
inside the curly braces.
We're storing that in here.
That's the body that function,
if I'm storing it here.
And, we better have little placeholders
that are awaiting any data to be inserted.
And that's the parameter
between the parentheses.
Okay, and that's also stored in here.
Two things ready to function,
we better be ready to do both,
we better be ready for both of them.
It's saved.
Next line, Virginia, what's the nest
line of code we're gonna do after we've
saved the function multiplied by two?
>> Virginia: Some more comments?
And then,
>> Virginia: [LAUGH]
Then create a label output-
>> Will Sentance: Excellent.
>> Virginia: And
assign it to the function.
>> Will Sentance: Not quite.
>> Virginia: Or execute the function.
>> Will Sentance: Ha.
Left-hand side first.
Declare output is a label.
People this may feel quite trivial.
We're here to learn about building
LinkedIn from scratch, but, but
I promise you,
I have a feeling that if we're gonna
receive messages at any random
time from Sarah roses Mac.
She wants to get on Twitter at any time,
any time all the time.
She's very excited by Twitter.
In it comes,
that's gonna presumably tell Node,
because Node can listen in through actual
learn later on a feature of a library
of C++ code could libUV that can be
aware when an inbound message arrives.
Node is then somehow presumably
going to tell JavaScript to run
some code to look at that message.
Cuz we want to look at the message.
So we want to better write code in our
language that looks at the message and
sees what he's asking for.
Well, that sounds like we have to run some
code up here later than when we wrote it.
How do we bundle up code to run
later than when we wrote it?
Mohammed how do I bundle up code?
>> Mohammed: Wrap it in a function.
>> Will Sentance: Wrap it in a function.
So it may seem trivial people functions,
but
they turn out to be the most
important construct in JavaScript.
Code bundled up that we're not going to
run now, we're saving it to run later.
And we're gonna do a lot
of saving code to run late.
And by the way, note here,
when we run it later,
we are gonna manually ourselves put
the parens on the end to say run it.
I have manually insert the input,
known as the argument.
I have a sneaking suspicion that
Node might end up being the one
who puts the parens on
the end of our function code,
who inserts the input automatically for
us.
And that's gonna turn out to be
the entire paradigm of node, but
we'll get to that in a second.
For now, let's start off by
declaring output, there it is.
Output, the label is declared.
Do we know what to store in it yet
Virginia?
>> Virginia: Do we know what to what?
>> Will Sentance: Do we know
what to store in output yet?
>> Virginia: Not yet,
cuz we haven't executed it.
>> Will Sentance: Spot on from Virginia.
So it's gonna be uninitialized for
now, no actual value.
Not undefined,
cuz that's an actual value in JavaScript.
Meaning, if it's a constant,
you couldn't then
change it from being undefined to whatever
the return value from multiply by two is.
So it starts as uninitialized,
completely, no value.
And we go ahead and now execute code.
And people we kind of create
almost like a mini app,
like a mini JavaScript,
this is JavaScript that has got memory and
the ability to go through
the code line by line.
Anyone tell me what the ability to go
through the code line by line is known as?
>> Sam: Interpreter
>> Will Sentance: What's the ability to go
through the code line by line known as?
Zep?
>> Zeph: Thread execution?
>> Will Sentance: Thread of execution.
That is JavaScript's ability to thread
its way down the page line by line and
execute the code as it goes.
Okay, well, we need the very same
two things to run a function.
Roman, what am I calling
multiply by two with?
>> Roman: Function?
>> Will Sentance: What
am I calling it with?
What input am I calling it with Sarah's?
>> Sam: Emphasis?
>> Sarah: For output you're calling it
>> Will Sentance: Which is what value?
>> Sarah: Three,
>> Will Sentance: Three.
Excellent.
Thank you Sarah Rose.
And now, we are going to
execute what's the intuitive
meaning of the word execute, William?
>> William: You're gonna run it?
>> Will Sentance: Run it.
You're gonna run the code or
multiply by two.
>> Will Sentance: To run code
of a function, what do we need?
We need a new?
>> Sam: Execution context.
[LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: The movement is
spreading.
I mean the movement is literally just
the official word from JavaScript.
But in some ways it is a movement.
Exactly an execution context.
People it's just a mini app, like a mini
JavaScript app like the big one we were
just in, just the two things we need to
run code places store stuff that shows up,
a memory.
And the ability to go
through it line by line.
Okay.
Same thing to run a function's code.
You're gonna have another memory.
That means a store of data.
This one's temporary.
They call it local or temporary.
I call it temporary sometimes, and
it's just for inside this function.
And when we leave the function,
what keyword makes us leave a function?
>> Sam: Return.
>> Will Sentance: Return.
If there's no return,
we just leave the function automatically
when we hit the closing curly brace.
Everything is deleted in here.
Okay, so, first thing in the local memory,
Zep, is what?
>> Zeph: Input number.
>> Will Sentance: Input number.
And it's set to what value?
>> Zeph: Right now it's 3.
>> Will Sentance: 3.
Then we do declare result.
It will be 3 by 2 which is 6, and
we return the value of result into
output and assign it to output.
There we go folk.
This is the heart of JavaScript.
Two things it does, save data and code.
Run code on data.
What's the first thing it does Matt?
>> Will Sentance: What's
the first thing it does, Michael?
What's the first thing it does, Virginia?
>> Virginia: Updates data.
>> Will Sentance: Yep, and-
>> Sam: Garbage collection.
>> Will Sentance: And code known as-
>> Sam: Functions.
>> Will Sentance: Functions, and
the second thing it does, Sam?
>> Sam: Runs it?
>> Will Sentance: Runs code on data.
First thing it does, Matt?
>> Matt: Runs code.
>> Will Sentance: Second
thing it does [LAUGH].
Charlie, first thing it does?
>> Charlie: Saves code and saves data.
>> Will Sentance: Saves code and data.
Correct.
Second thing it does, Matt?
>> Matt: Runs code.
>> Will Sentance: Runs code!
Matt, you are gifted beyond.
All right, now, that's all it does.
Now you see the at the hard part is you
know it does some interesting things like,
when you save a function it bounds it or
it links it to all
the surrounding vibrant things.
But basically it saves data and
code, I know Matt do it again, and
runs that code on the data.
That's all it does.
But we're the ones who tell it
to run the code by doin what?
How do I say to run a function Charlie.
>> Charlie: You,
apply a parentheses at the label.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic,
add parentheses on the end.
Spot on.
>> Will Sentance: I just have a feeling
that it might be that someone else is
gonna be putting those parentheses on for
me and
it's gonna be the most
important part of Node.